Unit Name of Unit Marks
1 Number Systems 08
2 Algebra 24
3 Coordinate Geometry 08
4 Geometry 32
5 Mensuration 18
6 Statistics and Probability 10

UNIT 1: NUMBER SYSTEMS 

1. Real Numbers
Irrational numbers , Real numbers and their decimal expansion , Operations on real
numbers, Laws of exponents for real numbers.
UNIT 2: ALGEBRA 24
1. Polynomials
Definition of a polynomial in one variable, Zeros of a polynomial , Factorization of
polynomials, algebraic identities –
and application of these in the factorization of polynomials.
2. Linear Equations in Two Variables
Linear equations , Solutions of linear equations , Equations of lines parallel to x- axis
and y-axis.

UNIT 3: COORDINATE GEOMETRY 

1. Coordinate Geometry
Coordinate system, Plotting of a point in a plane when its coordinates are given.
UNIT 4: GEOMETRY 32
1. Lines and Angles
Fundamental terms and definitions, Intersecting and non-intersecting lines, Pair of
angles, Parallel lines and transversal line, Property of addition of angles of a triangle.
2. Triangles
Congruence of triangles, Criteria of congruency of triangles- Side-Angle-Side (SAS)
and Side-Side-Side (SSS), Some properties of a triangle.
3. Quadrilaterals
Property of addition of angles of a quadrilateral, Types of quadrilateral, Properties of a
parallelogram.
4. Circles
Circle and its relating terms, Angle at point subtend by a chord, Perpendicular from
center on a chord, Angle subtend by an arc of a circle- The angle subtended by an arc at
the center is double the angle subtended by it at any point on the remaining part of the
circle.

5. Constructions

 Fundamental constructions- Construction of bisectors of a given angle, Construction
of perpendicular bisector of line segments; Some constructions of triangles –
Construction of a triangle whose base, base angle and sum of its two sides are given.

UNIT 5: MENSURATION 

1. Areas
Area of a triangle using Heron's formula .
2. Surface Areas and Volumes
Surface areas of cuboid and cube, Volume of a cube and a cuboid.

UNIT 6: STATISTICS and PROBABILITY

1. Statistics
Presentation of data, Diagrammatic representation of data ( bar graphs).
